Okay.
So to kick this lesson off, I've opened up our job filters sidebar view component.
And as a reminder, this is the component where we are rendering multiple job filters, sidebar, checkbox
group components, and each one of these child components is responsible for rendering its own collection
of checkboxes.
And in order to provide the data for those checkboxes, we have this unique values prop, and the data
for the unique values prop is coming from this unique job type's name, which will expire in just a
second.
And for this checkbox group, we're doing something very similar.
We have our unique values prop and that is relying on unique organizations.
And of course, we know in the composition API that if we're using these names in our template, they
must be coming from our setup method.
So down below you can see here are those sets of unique values and we are getting them from respective
composable functions called use unique job types and use unique organizations.
So that tells me we're going to need to do something very similar for our degrees.
Now, a key difference here is that our unique degrees is going to be an array of strings rather than
a set of strings.
But the same principle applies if I open up the file that this composable is in, which is source store
composable, is that.
Yes, you can see here we have our use unique organizations composable and it uses the use store function
from view X and it does that so that it can return a computed function evaluation that tracks the state
of a specific getter, which is the unique organizations, so that whenever that get a re runs, the
computed reactive object also re evaluates and returns that data back to the job filter, sidebar component
or any component that happens to be relying on this getter.
So we're going to need to write a very similar composable called Use Unique Degrees, and its responsibility
will be to talk to the View Store, to talk more specifically to the getter called unique degrees,
and to wrap that in reactivity so that whenever it changes, we also update all of the components that
are relying on that composable.
So with that said, let's open up our test file for this file and that can be found in composable that
test that yes, I'm going to drag this to the right.
And as always, the good news here is our composable test is going to be very similar to the one we've
written previously for some of the other composable here.
So if I scroll down here, we're going to see we have use unique job types and use unique organizations
and our new one is going to be very similar.
So right here, I'm going to add a new described block and I'm going to assume that my new composable
will be called use unique degrees.
That makes sense to me, of course, following the exact same naming scheme.
And what is its responsibility going to be?
It's going to retrieve.
Retrieves unique degrees from store.
All right.
So if we take a look at what the test above is doing, it's using the used storm mark, which has already
been mapped out.
And it's marking out a sample getter that we're going to be relying on in the implementation and having
it return what it cares about.
So in this case, it's a new set because the unique organization's getter in the real world that returns
a set.
But in our test, it's going to be very similar, except our unique degrees getter simply needs to be
a property that gives us back an array of degrees.
So right here, I'm going to say we have our use store function marked out.
And so when it's invoked in our test, we wanted to have a return value.
Please produce this return value, which of course is going to be an object with a getters property.
And the getter that we care about in this test that needs to exist is going to be unique degrees and
we do not need to write some kind of complex implementation.
This is simply going to be a property that we're acting right here, just like we do in these implementations.
That needs to return to us.
The object that we're going to wrap in reactivity using the view computed function in this case, this
is not going to be a set of strings.
Remember, this is going to be an array of degrees.
So right here, I'm just going to put an array and let's just have the in here.
Again, as a very quick reminder, I apologize for the repetition, but if I go into my getters that's
filed as a quick reminder here is unique degrees.
We are not generating a new JavaScript or TypeScript set object.
We are iterating over our degrees array and recalling the map method on the array to just extract the
degree property from every degree object.
So we're going to have an array of strings, not a set of strings.
And that's exactly what I'm emulating here.
All right.
So once we have Mark at the store, what do we need to do?
We need to actually invoke and run our actual composable.
Now, we don't have it imported yet, so let's scroll up here and right here we can add it to our imports.
It, of course, does not exist yet, but that's not a problem.
It's right here.
I'm going to import use unique degrees.
There we go.
Up and down below.
What I'm going to do is invoke use unique degrees and I'm going to assign its return value to a constant
call result.
And of course, my expectation is that that is going to be a view reactive object because we're going
to eventually wrap this in computed logic.
So in order to get the actual value that that reactive object is keeping track of, as a reminder,
I have to access resultant value and that I will expect to equal the exact value that I have on my getter.
Which is going to be an array of one string of.
All right, let's save that.
And with that, we are cleared to go ahead and go ahead and write our proposal.
Now, our composable will be relying on our unique degrees constant, which should already exist because
it's going to be already defined for the letter file.
So if I scroll up here, we can import unique degrees right here from our conference file.
There we go.
And then what we can do is define our composable set right here, export const.
This composable function will be called using unique degrees.
It's not going to accept any arguments.
The first thing I'm going to need to do is to establish a connection to my bookstore.
I can do that by, of course, using my use store function and passing in the key and again in the real
world.
This will talk to the real view store in our test world that we're simply going to use the mock object
right here.
So this is what we're getting back in our test.
And then the next thing we need to do, of course, very similar to what we're doing above, is we're
going to return a computed evaluation.
Here, I'm going to invoke the computed function.
Remember that that accepts any argument of a function.
And that function is going to rerun any time any of its dependencies change.
So on my store that I have access to, I have a getters property.
And I want to say that whenever the unique degrees getter reruns, I want you to rerun the computed
function and give me back its value in a computed object, right?
So that's going to be a good place to start.
But remember, we can do a little bit better because computed by itself is not going to be able to figure
out what this returns.
So here what we did is we provided a generic type to clarify to TypeScript that the reactive object
is going to be storing a set of strings.
So I'm going to do something very similar here.
I'm going to provide my brackets right here.
And what kind of data type is my reactive object going to be wrapping?
It's not going to be a set of strings.
It's going to be an array of strings.
So right here I'm going to say string array like so string followed by square brackets.
And that again, to provide some more explicit type annotation so that TypeScript can do its job a little
bit better.
All right.
So let's see what we're going to get here.
Looks like we have a failure, but it looks like the failure is due to the fact that I am not a good
typer because there's a typo right here with D having a space.
So right here, if my short doesn't have a space, I will remove the space right here.
Common error.
Let's let that rerun.
We've provided all the right types.
We've used our key, and now it looks like everything is passing perfect.
So now we have a composable and we can use it in our component.
I will see you in the next lesson.